# Covid-19-data-UK
This project explores the relationship between demographic variables and COVID-19 death rates during the first week of January 2021. This week saw the peak in cases since the start of the pandemic and led to the third national lockdown on the 5th of January. The rapid rise in cases was driven by the new COVID mutation that is said to be 70% more infectious and has quickly spread accross the UK. A report published by Public Health England (2020) found that in previous waves certain groups were more vulnerable to the virus. For example, they found higher death rates for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) groups than for White ethnic groups. Among those diagnosed with COVID- 19, people who were 80 or older were seventy times more likely to die than those under 40. The report also showed that deprived areas in the UK also have higher COVID death rates. I want to explore how density, proportion of over 60s and non-white population as well as median pay are related to death rate in England during this first week of the year. I also want to compare death rates between regions, and how these have been distributed geographically.
My analysis is split up into three sections. The first involves curating the dataset I will be using and performing simple exploratory analysis. The next section implements the K-means clustering algorithm to group together observations that share similar demographic characteristics. This will help me spot any trends in death rate and number of cases for each of the clusters. Finally, I will use supervised machine learning algorithms such as linear and random forest regression to create a predictive model for death rate.

